1. Set up your environment
Make sure you have the necessary libraries installed. You can do this by setting up a Python environment or using Google Colab (if you prefer not to install the libraries locally).

Option 1: Using Local Python Environment
Install Python: Make sure you have Python installed. You can download it from python.org.

Create a virtual environment (optional but recommended for better dependency management):


python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # For macOS/Linux
venv\Scripts\activate     # For Windows

Install Required Libraries:

Run the following command in your terminal to install the necessary libraries:


pip install pymupdf sentence-transformers faiss-cpu


Option 2: Using Google Colab
Open a new Google Colab notebook.

Run the following installation command to install the libraries:


!pip install pymupdf sentence-transformers faiss-cpu


2. Prepare the PDF file
Make sure you have the PDF file ready, as the script requires it for extracting text. Place the PDF file in a directory and note the file path. You will replace 'path_to_your_pdf.pdf' with the actual file path in the code.

3. Save the main.py file
Copy the code provided in the main.py file.

Save it as main.py in your project folder.

4. Run the Script
Option 1: Running Locally
Once the environment is set up and dependencies are installed, you can run the script from your terminal.

Open the terminal and navigate to the folder where your main.py file is located.

Execute the script by running the following command:


python main.py


Option 2: Running in Google Colab
Copy the code into a cell in your Google Colab notebook.

Ensure that you upload your PDF file to Colab, or you can use Google Drive to load the file.

Replace the pdf_path variable in the code with the correct file path, such as /content/your_pdf_file.pdf if you uploaded it to Colab.

Run the code cells to see the output.

5. Results
The script will extract text from the PDF, create sentence embeddings, store them in a FAISS index, and then perform a similarity search based on your input query.

The top similar sentences from the PDF will be printed as output.

6. Optional (Using a Custom Query)
You can modify the query used in the search. Change the value of the query variable in the code to your desired search string, for example:


query = "What is the main topic of the PDF?"

Notes:
Ensure that the PDF file path is correct if running locally.

For Google Colab, you may need to upload the PDF file or link it from Google Drive.
